# study Journal 20231020
# study Journal 20231020

- #vim Vimscript: How to get the next line where the cursor is on?
	id:: 198d8739-1466-4d0e-bb01-3165752d0b36
	source:: bing

```
echo getline(line('.') + 1)
```

- #vim Vimscript: Telescope popup içinden otomatik enter tuşuna basmak için bir trick
	id:: 70b2cd63-98e1-4258-91d2-c3ccee3912bc

```
function! GotoBlockOrWikilink() 
	echo "merhaba"
	call GotoBlockDef()
endfunction
command! GotoBlockOrWikilink call GotoBlockOrWikilink()
```

Yukarıdaki fonksiyonda `echo` satırını silersem, Telescope popup açılıyor. Ancak enter tuşuna otomatik basılmıyor. Ama `echo` koyarsam, o zaman telescope popup içinde seçili olan dosyaya otomatik geçiyor.

- #vim Vimscript: Regex to match uuid
	id:: 04a6d7d1-8c6b-4d24-bbe0-acfee856eab2
	source:: bing

```
[0-9a-f]\{8}-[0-9a-f]\{4}-[0-9a-f]\{4}-[0-9a-f]\{4}-[0-9a-f]\{12}
```

- #vim Vimscript: Regex: Return only matching string.
	id:: e33b2ab5-82d1-44ac-8af5-8277ac21c960
	source:: bing

To return only the matching string in Vimscript, you can use the `matchstr` function with a regular expression as the second argument. This will return the first substring of the given string that matches the pattern, or an empty string if no match is found. For example, if you want to extract the domain name from a URL, you can use:

`let domain = matchstr('https://www.bing.com/', '\vhttps?://([a-z0-9-]+\.)+[a-z]+')`

This will assign `https://www.bing.com` to the variable `domain`. Note that the `\v` flag is used to enable very magic mode, which reduces the number of backslashes needed for special characters. For more information on regular expressions in Vimscript, you can check out these web search results² or these question answering results¹. I hope this helps! 😊

Source: Conversation with Bing, 10/20/2023
(1) vimscript - How to get all/global match results for a string? - Vi and .... https://vi.stackexchange.com/questions/16489/how-to-get-all-global-match-results-for-a-string.
(2) Vimscript: get all matches of a regex over a string. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34056600/vimscript-get-all-matches-of-a-regex-over-a-string.
(3) How to return part of javascript string that matches regex?. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31944749/how-to-return-part-of-javascript-string-that-matches-regex.

- #vim Vimscript: Regex: Error: Single quote no need for escaping backslashes
	id:: e99cf5a0-4885-4924-a2dd-c711733c1cdd

Tek tırnakla yazdığın stringlerde, backslash karakterlerini escapelemen gerekmez. 

Çift tırnakta gerekir:

```
let f01 = "id:: 2a14e356-ae8c-498b-ac63-c76ee62553eb"

let regex_uuid = "[0-9a-f]\\{8}-[0-9a-f]\\{4}-[0-9a-f]\\{4}-[0-9a-f]\\{4}-[0-9a-f]\\{12}"
let f02 = matchstr(f01, regex_uuid)

let regex_uuid = '[0-9a-f]\{8}-[0-9a-f]\{4}-[0-9a-f]\{4}-[0-9a-f]\{4}-[0-9a-f]\{12}'
let f02 = matchstr(f01, regex_uuid)
```

- Log: Örnek uuid:

```
	"   search the following string in telescope: 
	"     id:: 2f128e0f-7cc0-46ad-894a-de3265ae8b26 
	"
	" result:
	"
	"   ((2f128e0f-7cc0-46ad-894a-de3265ae8b26))
```


